- [Instructor] As you start to build out
a distributed system, it becomes very, very clear
that identifying where all of your service endpoints are
can become a maintenance nightmare.
Welcome to Eureka.
Eureka includes both a console and a discovery platform
for registering and identifying all of your services
within a distributed system.
Eureka was created and open sourced by Netflix.
It is a REST-based service,
and in addition to the console and the platform,
Netflix also contributed a client to consume
the discovery platform itself.
Now why would we want to use Eureka
when there's so many other ways to discover services,
especially in cloud providers?
And really, it comes down to not everything
should be publicly exposed.
And most cloud providers have platforms
that publicly expose all of your services.
In addition, Eureka provides a very clean,
again, REST-based interface,
for both registration and discovery.
It has a default round-robin load balancing client,
and best of all, for our purposes,
there's easy integration with Spring
thanks to Netflix having open sourced the entire project.
So let's talk a little bit about Eureka Server.
Now, the Eureka Server itself
is very much like Config Server
that we previously worked with.
It has an easy dashboard that's built in,
so you can see not only everything that is registered,
but its status and its health.
It also supports replication, which is great
because if Eureka becomes your single point of failure,
your entire system goes down.
But within any given data center,
you can have multiple instances of Eureka
that all talk to each other
and keep each other at the same level.
And if one of them fails,
you have one or more fallbacks that the services can go to
to get their discovery.
Now I want to talk a little bit about the client as well.
The client that Netflix offers
leverages the same Spring application name property
that we used with the Config Server.
In fact, what you might find
is a lot of the Spring cloud offerings
leverage this application name.
And the client works very much like the Config Client works
in that it gets its configuration,
or in this case its server endpoints
directly during the life cycle of the Spring application.
Eureka Client also registers your service
with the Eureka Server as well as does
the discovery needed in order to consume
the services within your system,
so it really becomes a one-stop shop.
So let's set up a Eureka Server.